Get this down as best I can just because like the fun thing that we get to do
I just hit record on this. Sorry, my hair is wet also. I just came out of the shower. Oh, no, no
Sorry for being able to just do this a bit too late. Maybe on your side, but no, no, it's it's not late at all
Yeah, I think the the data that we're gonna put together here in collection with
Blizzard's archives in relation with
Talking with F-Gamp in relations with talking to the Australian sound and
sound and vision
Archives like we've got lots and lots of stuff that this is gonna bounce off of really nicely. Yeah, yeah
So the first thing I wanted to ask just to get kind of a baseline is that
You are the the chief archivist at the embrace your games archive
Yes, and embrace your games is a large games publisher. That means that they are
Putting together a lot of big projects involving huge companies that then they do not necessarily produce the games that they are
the
Responsible for the teams that are producing games in a like a distant way
exactly very
the main like
Company the people like taking care of numbers and things have been in one part and the game
Companies and creators have have been able to work on what they feel is correct and so on. So yeah
Decentralized that's the word I was looking for that was actually the word I was looking for too. Thank you. Yeah, great
So it has been like that and that has also been the same for us here at the archive
Because you are a part of that decentralized feeling right or not the feeling but just that you're different
Entity a different corporation not corporation, but like company part of a larger conglomeration
Exactly, and we've been treated a bit like everyone else like when we started here
And I was the second one
On board our first one was our CEO David David Bistram
the poster and
We were just like left here like we got into this look a into this
Place that we have and they just said like make an archive you have 40,000 objects and
Do what you must
I have heard this story at almost every private
Institution that I've got to talk to like if it's a nonprofit institution. They're like we will
Make it without any resources. It's not a task that has been put on to them
but yeah, the private archives is always a a
Responsibility that's been given from a some kind of higher up or a hierarchy of some kind
Exactly and then becomes a project that you take on
yeah, and
So I wanted to know how yeah, how much connection do you end up having with the the like
with Embracer games archives and their projects
Like actively not that much like everyone everyone does their own thing and we don't know about what everyone is doing
We just know about what is up and coming, but we don't know like actively what is being done
So our because our preservation isn't about the Embracer like legacy, but it's it is about gaming as a whole
So yeah
So that's what makes it very different because our
Like boundaries are that we want to have an archive as as extensive as possible of all
Physically released game to the commercial market
So that's like our main
That's our base because we really need to have some kind of yeah boundaries because
This is such a big thing, and we weren't really told what was the our main focus our
our like
Our most you came up with the mission statement. Yeah, we came up with it. Yeah
ourselves, and then of course we told our higher ups and they were like yeah, that sounds good. So that is our aim and also
And my shower thought I always call it my your my eureka moment
Was when I came to calling our ethos preservation through use because that's what we are aiming to do
It's not about only preserving long-term. It is also by making things accessible today
And we really sorry. Can you talk more about that? So preservation through use
So you want to have your archives be used and have that metric be a part of
How you engage with embrace or at large?
Yeah, but not only
Embrace or we are available for everyone that asks and wants to take part of the archive
So that's a very important part for us. So we've had companies outside of the embrace a sphere that have asked us to do scans for their games
Or things like that because we are
We are available like we have had
Some contact there. I think with for example go google games
that they want the scans of covers and
manuals and we try to help everyone
At our best ability within within that
But people can come here we get visitors
I think like two or three visitors each week
different kinds of visitors like everything from
People that are looking into researching and we've had some people doing some kind of like internships with their studies
we have games companies but also other people preserving games and
writers
People working at like games magazines like everyone that somehow
can make
something out of the archive because as it is right now we are not like
We we do not aim to be like we doing
More research and working on things because that's not our like
The thing that we are here for we are a very small team
and
So with that we have to like
Think about what what we can and can't do
but
The intention is that everyone
Is of a is welcome to ask about coming to the archive and we really want to help as much as possible
Yeah, does that mean so a little bit of process here are they
emailing you to say hey, can we come in and see and
Then you say yeah come on in or the door is just open or
Uh, we just have to plan it
If we think that it is a good question or something that could benefit games as culture
Okay, gory and so on of course
So that vetting process also kind of bounces off your um your mission statement and your your core
ideal just a little bit to
See like oh, does this make sense? Okay
Yeah, but but we're very like open to you
But it is questions we we've gotten very weird like hi
We're gonna have like a style party. Can we come to the archive and yes, that's what I was wondering. Yeah
Yeah, those types of visitors aren't really within our scope. Let's go at all. I'd love that
Uh, yeah
Because people sometimes think we are a museum and other kinds of like
Things but we are here for the people that really can
Do something more out of our
You are not a museum, but I've
As i've shown to everyone that i've talked to about like hey, this is the eraser games archive
Um everything about your advertising and how you present does look like a museum does look like the funnest place
Like all I can take my kids here
Yeah, no, we understand that part and also that the never ever staged someone called a museum
But we have just never seen an archive that looked so exciting look like it's trying to bring in
a very wide audience
Yeah, no, because we are trying to to get a very white audience and people coming here
We
Even though I don't like fires, but we call it like a bonfire like people can meet here and have conversations and reminisce about
Older times or see new things because we also have new
New games and only old just it's the physicality that we care. Yes
And this is all located in sweden
Is that mean your clientele is more localized?
At the moment. Yes, we have mostly swedish or european
People coming here and studying where I just had contact yesterday with
a
Person studying and he's gonna do he's doing his masters and he has to do some kind of
Internship, so he's gonna come here
for three weeks and follow
Me but also I would really like because we're still so new and there's not really an another organization exactly like us
So we're still trying like how do we do things like if a person is researching here
We've had some researchers like how how do we handle them like we have a space that we
mainly have for people that are trying out games, but yeah
That is I've been throwing that curveball to fill salvador all year
At the vghf
He has also had to be like oh, how do I manage this person and I'm like nope. I I managed myself
Yeah, just let me know if I'm in the right directions
Yeah, no, we are because
Our our
Thing is that we don't want people to just go around touching things and getting them by
By themselves like we we help and and also for example if
An object a game needs to be opened
We prefer to do it ourselves to see that it is open correctly that we don't like damage
What we are opening up so we are very careful with that
That makes sense
And we have like does that happen where if folks if folks come in do you present stuff for them or
Yes, we've had as I said researchers come in here and they know what they want to see
So we prepare it and we really make sure everything works because
Part of the preservation through use ethos is that we want to be able to
Play the games on contemporary hardware for the game. So we have
the computers the consoles but also the screens and the
And the controllers that were
Were yeah active. Do you have a pillow? Do you have a
Rare items pillow that you get to rest things on
No, it's my favorite part of coming to our classes
Okay, if I can get the curator to bring out the like white gloves and the the book pillow
It's like no
But we've actually thought a bit about it because we have some old picks that are very
And
Yeah, that we have to
That is a question I could only ask here
Like there's no other place in the world that I can ask something like that because it's just such a
The scope of everything which we have
Yeah, but but we use what is called
The
Weight stakes at least here in Sweden that you use when when papers being like
a mess
Something easy is being opened you you use it are
Around the paper to like keep it down. So those kinds of things we we use
Oh, oh, that's gonna get me to some questions later because
That's there's some interesting stuff in there. Um
So we we kind of went deep before even getting a one of the shallow parts
squared away
What is so I saw on the website it says I think almost 90,000 objects your most recent blog post on it
Yes, and
Those 90,000 that's been collected over how long have y'all been
We've been here for
four and a half years around the time but
um
So 90,000 four and a half years
Yeah, no, but we actually
with 40,000 because the
one of the
co-founders and previously actually a CEO of
Embracer, uh, losh, losh being a fosh
Lars being a fosh. Yeah, uh, he he was actually
He is a big collector of things. He he loves collecting
And he's actually said himself that he collects collections. So that's
His thing and one of the the the areas he was collecting were games
And he when he reached around
40,000
He was like, uh, this is maybe a bit too much for just one person and this could feel a greater purpose
For the gaming industry to give something back and that's where they started somehow
Thinking about this and then a years or so after this idea was
So they actually came to the conclusion that an archive
Would be the best and then they started the recruitment phase
So that's interesting because that is not common for archives at least I don't feel like that's common in in archives
Uh, but that is extremely common in video games
Yeah, yeah, yeah and and tech and and kind of computers and computing
That you'll have a collector who has just a it's too big of a collection
And then that turns a new museum
Exactly and many of the collections actually that we've acquired
Come from that come from people that have collected for decades and they've had this great
Idea of making a museum or something the like but when they actually start
Looking into making something like that. They noticed that it is
a big big
Endeavour and that is a complicated thing to to actually make
So somewhere there is that why they chose to do an archive instead of a museum
Was to change the scope
Yeah, and also yeah, that's I think part of it and also that
uh
We think that this or they thought I think that this is
Something that doesn't exist in the way that we are doing it and that it would fill
A gap in the preservation and and yeah
Having access to gaming history
Well, yeah, that's funny that you call it a gap in preservation when it's also all of it
Yeah, you're trying to collect all of it and uh
We're trying to collect all of it and it's a huge task
We do know of course that we won't get everything in some parts
Some parts will be really really difficult, but oh, yeah, that's why I want to ask a couple of more closing in questions
um
Because
Everything is too much. There's no archive that holds everything. That's that would be silly
Um, what is there a time frame or an era that you focus on?
Is there a locality that there's like a okay. We have the best
amount of this areas work
our no we we
There is like the time span that we use is from the first
Like physically released
Gaming and that was what we see it as it's the man of ox odyssey
Okay
Because that that was a commercial product that you could go to a store and buy because we of course know that there's been games before that
But then but it wasn't really something you can you could buy it was more like
University projects and the like so that's that's like what we see as the start and then
Everything till the future and everything that might bring so we have like, you know
real like
Time span with with the other at the other side because we know this
That they're still people are still releasing of course physical games. I think many of us because I'm also a collector
Yep, I want physical
Obiexa. I I really like the feeling of having things that are in a game in the physical world
I I really feel
But also I think that maybe not everyone thinks about is that there there is a big
homebrew
scene in
in most of
of the
Computers and and consoles people are still making especially in Europe or for the old tradition
Yeah, yes, there are like
New homebrew games. So that that part we also really want to preserve because that's a very big part of of gaming
History that we're still working on old things and and that we
As humanity find it important and people still care
So, okay, our boundary is physically a release game
commercial. Yes, so that's not unreasonable boundary either because games are young in the archival sense
it is
Absolutely, it's truly
Uh, does that also include I saw you have the shelves you have the big stacks you can wheel them all through
um
When you're grabbing when you're when you're picking games or pulling them putting them into collection
uh
if you're doing everything does that include versions or or collectors editions or
Day one releases versus like game of the year editions. Is there any kind of
Do you just want we are each what's the quantity?
uh our like end goal is to have one of each version that that is our
really really
But at the moment we are
I don't know if it's said in english, but we're eating the elephant one bite at the time because it's such a big big
uh like end goal we have so
uh at the moment we are
Uh, yeah
We we don't really have the possibility, but if we if we have it already like
Some of our collections that we've acquired might have different versions if if we've acquired
And an australian collection and then we have a Nordic collection there then there will be differences
And then we of course keep keep them because yeah, we don't have as much of a
Variation as possible, but some of the collectors editions are so big that it takes so much space
That's what I was kind of asking about is that that's a lot of real estate in the archival sense
It is and and but it's still some something that is within our our aim
so
We at least for for every computer or console like if there are multiple
Uh, yeah, there might be like a ps5 a switch version and so on off the same collector seditions
We won't and you don't need that. Yep. That completely makes sense
So we we we need that also in the heart
Okay, so this all this all matches because that's all what you would preserve from the focus of a collector
I think that makes sense that that lines up
um
What about uh hardware we haven't talked about hardware. Uh, yeah, what kinds of what's the scope of hardware collection?
Because that's not going to be everything that's going to be
Certain parts and is it specific and also is it to run the games or is it to
like how much upkeep is there in
Collecting and using hardware
There are those I think there are two or three questions
Like a bunch of things because I yeah, but it's hardware's weird. It's not really a part of this
but it is it is because our aim is to be able to play the games on
Original hardware. So we really
For us the hardware is
Is a thing we must have but as you were in and saying also we can't have like everything because for example for the
Xbox there are
I
Yeah, many many many many many releases that were like this is specific for this game
And this was like a version for the this bundle and so on so
If they're part of something and we get it by
Just getting it somehow of course we would keep it, but it's not something we're actively searching for
And we have
Our one of the persons working here is our technical engineer. So he does everything from the database work to actually conservation work
Okay
Luckily, he's worked with both professionally. So it's
It's really good having all bless him. Okay. That's such a good position to be in
Yeah, yeah, so it's awesome and
And our work
Or at least the work we're gonna do soon because we've we've had so much to work to start with but
when when the conservation work now starts
Full on I think it's gonna actually be now to
To all
Autumn we will begin with that
and
We are gonna or at least our our technical
Engineers going to look through what we have and make some of the computers and consoles
And have them working like so that we can use them
But yeah, as we have many versions the other ones we are gonna keep in some kind of like
Sleeping state so he will remove of all of the volatile components
Remove them from the consoles and the computers and then if they're needed some later
At the later date, then he will he can easily make them work
again because
The amigas have have the capacitors that we can and things like that
So so all of those parts are going to be removed out of the the the
Obies that we have here that are not going to be actively used and of course you also make sure that the
things that we do use are
Are working and are safe?
Because for example, we we try to keep them as original as possible, but sometimes it's hard
The power sources might be bad on some of the
especially the micro computers like
Like this is 64. It's a huge thing and and with time it isn't as good something
It happens so it doesn't output the electa
This is not my area, but somehow it is much safer to have a modern
power source or yeah
Power supply, yeah, right because some of them will have different power supplies from older
standards
Um, how do you do anything to repair them or do if you have broken stuff
Do you try to trade it out with new and put those back in the ecosystem or how does that part work?
At the moment we haven't like put out things and we're looking into how to do it
We we have duplicates, but not that much as we
As we might have thought we've actually gone through now to test it and and yeah because of the version thing and also
I'm trying to
I I just went through some amiga games just to see like some that we had a lot many copies of but many were
different like the
The the this gets could be different colors or some might have like receipts and
Might be a different version and so on because that that is also a part that we're very interested of the the human part of the games
like has someone
written in sheet codes or made a map out of
Yeah
hand-drawn maps or whatever those things we we really like because that that gives that yeah human connection and
It makes it
And so you catalog that too and tangible we're going to do this
I can go through how our cataloging work has been done if you if you want I would love to see that
No, I I was going to ask certain things all around that but uh one of my main questions
Yeah, I would love to see if you have any CMS or if you have any back end that
um
Shows that cataloging process. That'd be so cool
Let's see if I can
Share my screen and maybe I could show you a bit of the work that we have been doing. Let's
I'm not that used to
And
Let's see. I said hello and then you should be able to hit share now
Let's see. I am going to find their axial collections there share
You see what I is loading I think
Yes, I do see it now. I don't know why yeah, okay
This is our no that it's not our this I've already logged in here
Yeah, we've actually bought like a base
Program or so to call it called axial collections. We'd say
I think it's a European company. I think it was actually Swedish to begin with but now it's mostly in the Netherlands
and
But this is a program that is used by museums archives libraries
and the like
But games aren't really part like many of the standards for other
Other types of this is exactly what I wanted to dive into little metadata a little bit
How the catalog works what what kinds of things are important for a organization like yours to catalog
Will be different from everyone else's but um or
But also kind of sets like a standard in a way
Because you're doing the work that a lot of other just uh groups would be wanting to do
There's just a lot of overlap there
Let's search. I've been playing fallout again. Let's search here
I search for fallout and then I get all of the active records for it
So I'm not seeing anything on the screen. I'm just seeing the sign and screen with the blank username
and that's that's
Weird, let me
See why I can't
Show you let's see but I do see your mouse moving which is so zoom is being weird
Yeah
Because it said your screen is pause, but I don't know why huh uh is that something I'd
I can stop the sharing and research it it it it does anything
And you can try sharing the monitor or sharing the like maybe there's some other options to try out too
See what do you see now?
Okay, now I see the axial main screen
Yeah, I can um. Oh, that looks great. Yes. Okay
So this is our
Like our list view
Where we get and I can I can go through because we worked iteratively with our database because we can't do
everything at once
and
Let's see. So we started with a very very like
a very small amount of data because we
Me as an archivist of course that that is a complicated thing because I do want lots and lots of metadata
But we had to be very pragmatic about what do we actually need
Right now like what what is our first question and what we first need to know is what we have and where where it is
So that those were like the the main thing. So we we cataloged
If it was a game or a console or a computer, let's see
And
We've which collection or acquisition it comes from
Location we and oblique number it gets
Automatically each time we create something you get the the next number, but that's unique to each oblique tier
Maybe I should have gone into our test database because then
And
Let's see
And yeah, this is the location here. We have a more simplified and here we have the the larger context to know what it is
and but here
Do you order all of your stuff on the shelves in an accession order? Is it just like a
Whatever goes in it goes into the next slot on the shelves
No, not at the moment. Actually, we are no we're trying to keep
As much as possible. We're trying to keep things together. So it is if it is by elections
In the beginning we actually had it by collections because we didn't have
A choice because we couldn't like upkeep the provenance and that's an important part for us and for me
To have keep like from which collection it comes from from which person so as we can keep that part of the legacy and and so on
Yep, and of course if people don't want to be
remembered if they they don't need to but we
Right, right. We have the the possibility and I can let's see
So we have all of these categories to begin with like
To be able to to see
And
And and be able to search like do I only want to search
Say game systems or do I only want to search a consumer electronics or
Whatever
So that's was one of the the first parameters that we really put the platform is also important
We have all of the
all of the big platforms and
All of the platforms that we have in the archive are somehow here in platform
And we also now have
Edition is quite the new one that we are gonna input just to know is it a day one edition
Is it a whatever it is type of collector's edition so that we can
Know about that one opt out is that one word? It doesn't necessarily need a field, but it has
prelisted set
It it's something that we're gonna work more now in our third iteration because what i'm
Like now it's more the first
Iterations that you can see how we work, but this is coming upcoming soon, but we have
Inputed today also. Oh, um, I guess i'm asking is it a closed vocabulary. That's the education
That's the school word. Yeah
Where it has lists of stuff underneath it or is it gonna be you type in whatever you want open
No, we have a
A list when it's like when
That's my thought was that that's so you have
You have lists and you could write a new one
But then we at the we I said because we are two people that they
And we we decide like is this a proper way of
writing or should it be
Should it like make another one more of it because we can
Behind the scenes we have what is called as the source
And for each term someone puts in
We can tell our system that this is the preferred term. This is the non preferred term
Or this term is prohibited so it has to be changed to
Another thing we have
Let's see. Oh my god. I gotta jump in on this. Um, I just love this topic
For example, we have a dinosaur. Oh, yeah. Yes. We we build it ourselves. Oh my god. Bless your hearts
So so so so for the
So for the the term
Game we have all of these different
Different types of yeah information so that we know for example if we have a game bundle
It might have different games so that then we know that there are different games
And then we also write all of the different games. So we know both the bundle name and the actual
And name of each game in the
Yeah in the object. Oh
awesome
And this we've worked through because we are actively we can change and do things very very fast here
As we're not a a more like
Publicly funded or organization because I've worked in municipalities and and other kinds of more
like publicly funded archives and
To do changes it takes a lot of time because you have to like get accepted to doing it
Yeah, here we can change things whatever way we want to
But these two were must you have to write a title at least and a a type so that we know what it is
Language has been something we write if we see it easily
region and
These things were also written if you could see them easily in our first iteration and we have
context we have
locations and
location history so we see if things have been moved and
Management details to see
What person has written and what changes have been made so that we can see like oh this person made
Changes and why did it make this it looks wrong or something like that so we can follow up. Oh awesome
All of that but now in the third it no second iteration
and we've actually taken
Pictures of the front and the back
And let's see i'm trying to why doesn't want
Yeah, let's just look like that
And so we take pictures of the front and the back of everything and we've also put a
Staker on everything and I know I've had to work very hard here to get that
and because
We're collectors also so you want to destroy or something on the outside
But we also have to be able to keep track of which item it actually is which which game which
So that's that is a very important aspect for us
So therefore we have a sticker on
On each object and that is with the object number this unique number it gets and it's both written out as numbers
But also as a QR code
Because we have an app connected to our system that we can
Scan and we could see we can see which location it should be on and what it is or we can also scan
Places because each and every shelf or place that we put something on has a unique
Number also a location so we can see we we can scan and we can see like this
This game should be here or this should be there so we can keep track of it
but also by having the the more
like
That we can see which which item it really is our concert conservator here you
Can actually keep track of it. Like i've done this to this console
I've exchanged he's very very meticulous about that like which types of
Cleaning
Things to clean all of the boards or whatever it is he writes exactly
What it is so in the future if anyone wants to do something that you know like these things were used and can
Know how to treat them so that oh that's such
important documentation
Amazing and I saw at least on one of the blogs that this is not necessarily how you scan things in now
That this is the second version
Exactly. This is the second iteration and we're actively and actually finishing off now our third iteration
And this is going to be the first time that we actually open everything up because till this moment everything
Has been on the outside because we've tried to be effective
And also not opening things up
multiple times
because of wear and tear but also
Trying to be more efficient. So at the moment we are
Making a a standard for us here internally of how we take pictures
So we have like you don't want to have to do all that over again anytime in the future
Exactly and so we're taking pictures of the front and the back of everything
Even if there's just like and if it's just an inlay we want to have a picture because things might look
It it can be for example water damage and then we might want to know that so we can keep track of everything
Yeah, and we're also actively
We can all have opinions about it, but we're working with AI looking into how
AI can take out
information from these pictures
Because if we would do that manually
We we wouldn't be able to do as much as we really wanted
So we're looking into how the the AI could like read how many CDs for example
We have
For that game or if it has a hand drawn map
If it is damaged somehow and which material so they this is a steel
Box so for it to know that it is steel and we have plastic we have so that we
Mostly for preservation in that matter that I can see like yes these games have styrofoam
We have to start treating them like how do we do or these
These are water damage like so we can
Continue with our more conservation and preservation work
That's a part of the process that's going to be vetted. Anyway, you're going to have to go through
And manually apply all of those changes that get put into the AI anyways
Yeah, yeah, we we will have to of course see that it is correct and so on. So yeah, I have to somehow make sure but
It's over the course of tens of thousands of objects that does speed things up
It does it does it will make our job so much easier and also
That we can input information that we might not have been able to input with because we want this to be done
So you can get on to other
Types of projects and stuff
Exactly, exactly. So that's
part of the
The work that we're doing to be able to work towards the future and and also with these pictures
We can in the future maybe take out other types of
Information
About them that we might not think about today, but having these
More high-res pictures we could maybe
Yeah, I don't know what we would want or if our researcher has some kind of question
We might be able to ask the our
AI with our like picture bank to effort to know like this is what you have or this is an answer about. Yeah
And
AI has been kind of helpful for us because we have so much
We had visitors from the us did linger and it's a Swedish writer
From her like a foundation or something and they wanted and we wanted to show them what we had based on her
Her works so we could just ask our AI because it has a CSV version of our database that we just
Imported that there and we could ask like and look up a list of all the astralina
base games and
What we have here in the archive and of course with with allocation so that we could easily just
Go and pick them up and present them for for our visitors
That lines up with
a lot of
What we've been using it for locally to some to some
Standing
It is it is and yeah, you have to just you just have to manually check through everything and make sure it all
actually reflects what you search for and
Yeah, that's because of a lot of time that makes a lot of sense. Yeah, one of the questions I
Mostly or one of these sentences. I mostly write to
the AI when I'm working actively with it more
On my side of the work is like I don't think so
So it has to recheck like yeah, what it but these like them. I don't know what they're called
and
these instances our
our
Technical and engineer here. He's really made sure to have as much like
information about how it should work like
Because with AI you really really have to be holding their hand to really like yeah
Yeah, you have to do it like you this if you get this question
You should like present the information in this way you look at these sources
and so on so it is yeah
so I
Saw that you recently had a big
um
A big drop. Uh like it was play on I think was
Yes gave you a large collection
It was their their archive actually their their own
Were you embracing their archive was that how that worked exactly exactly so no what okay
So that's a service that you are providing for no like at large their their industry
uh, we we we can take like the physical aspect, uh, but
uh
Everything we have here in the archive is the archives
Hours because yep, I work at previous other archives previously
And then we had maybe someone else's things and that yes
It's such a complicated like because then we might have to ask for permission if someone wants to see it
And and all of that and just keep track of yeah
And since you don't do that that means there's a bunch of questions. I can't ask there's just like well
That's all actually take care darn it
Those are my favorite questions
Sorry
For me
For me it's really important. I was very
very hard on that one because you have to choose your petals and that was one that I was kind of butch on because
I know how complicated it is because early and we actually got a question from a collector that had
Some very unusual games and he was like can you keep them there and uh, yeah for me
You can use them, but they're mine and I was like no
Nope, we're not doing that
No, so what was the process for?
Negotiating plions collection was that a election
Yeah, was that something where they were shutting down and then you were
Trying to kind of save as much as you could from the archive itself
I think it was more about us being able to give it another bigger context
So they were like better that it is here than it is
At their place because maybe they don't they they don't have the possibility to make them
Available in the same way. Oh, oh interesting
Oh, that's that's a real like success story for the work that you're kind of doing then that
Yeah, it is and and we're super happy about that one because we got each and every version of each game
So we have like so many versions of some gigs
But it is very interesting because we have like a day one
edition in english and we can have like the collector's edition in
Different languages and and everything so it's it's really
Exciting for us to be able to show a bit what we aim to have in the long run
So that collection we've actually kept
Together because right now says we have these QR codes
We can't keep track of from which collector comes from because earlier on if we would have put
All of the fallout games here for example together
We had we wouldn't be able to give track like this comes from these collection and these comes and this comes from the other collection
But now having these QR codes with with the the unique number we can keep track of it. So
And they would actually has been putting trying to put everything from each and every like
A
Console type or like create. I don't know what it's called. But for example, we have our
Sony roasts so that we have all of our PlayStation games together and PSP and everything
So that we can easier like
Go to correct part and know that yeah, here we have all of the Sega games
And that's something we did quite recently
So yeah
Early on we were we had everything in collection like we knew that these
Hearts were these exact collections and if we together something else we were very careful about actually knowing
What is what but yeah, now we can be a bit more. It's a lot easier for us
But it's really
That's because yeah, you're moving a lot of material
To get them into the right spots
Yeah, but now it feels like they are they are home so to say
So no it is
But it's still also complicated because you need
To think about it like how do we place things we're looking into having more boxes soon to keep things to be able to use our space more
efficiently
because something I I I've also tried to get my colleagues to
Also feel and think about is that space is gold
like
We really have to make sure that we use our space as efficiently as possible
And that I was also part of why we started this
work with putting everything together like
having all of the NES games together because if we had
an NES game and decided we have a
A PC big box game then we're losing a lot of space. So we're trying to be efficient with it
But we're also looking into the next stage stage in the preservation work is also
Trying to see what can be put in other types of containers so that we can
win space
the the the play on collection
um
Did that have the same scope as your collection or did that have
like developer
Stuff in it or did that have another like
Do those mesh together well or how does that work?
Yeah, they're I think I'm not 100
But I think that what they have or had in their archive was everything that they
Released physically. So it's not only games. Okay by them. It's also games that they
made
two others because they also make
And they also have like part of making physically physical games to two other companies because they're not that many
Companies actually doing that
Right
Okay, so that means that that the scope sounds like it matched with your guys's scope actually really really well
if it's all commercial games, then
Yeah, so we have versions for that are like we have Japanese versions that we got there
We got some like yeah
And we got some from the middle east and so it's cool
Just what I like and that's why we've actually kept that collection together to be able to show people that this
is what we
It would be awesome to have in the future like more variations. So that's
It's very easy to show. All right. So that being able to show that kind of range actually is really helpful for
Uh, showing the kinds of depths that your services can provide
Yeah
That makes sense. Uh, you brought it up and I want to grab it real quick before we go because it's my favorite question
You said that space is gold
Everything is uh has has that kind of cost to it. What's the biggest thing?
In the collection. What is the thing that takes up the most space?
Oh
I think
Because video games we make a lot of weird things
That go into get packaged in commercial games or come along with things
And so everyone has a weird standy somewhere or something
Yeah, no, we have a couple of figures like
like real size like
And
Then we have a master chief and so on but those are the things that we
Also a laura craft specifically
We have because two actually of the collectors that we acquire the their collection from
Uh, we're big big
Tomb Raider fans. So we have actually a lot of Tomb Raider games and of course also this uh,
life size
Laura
but the the biggest like
game related the like
That has big game box for us. I think I think I'm not sure. It's the calico
vision Adam
a computer that computer
also contains a
A printer it contains like so many things that box it. It's quite quite big actually
Oh, is it like one of those old school like where it's a table
sized computer
Yeah, no, it is
It is quite a big thing, but yeah with the printer and other like
useful things if you use it more as a
workstation
Um, I would love to keep asking questions. I've got a bazillion
Is it okay if we keep going? I know that we're at an hour, but I don't want to take up your time unduly
I think let's see. I don't yeah, my phone is here. I think my next meeting is Swedish time at
Right before nine
Yeah
So like we can sit here like 24 more minutes and then I have to 25 more minutes and then we can oh my gosh
Thank you. Is it okay? You only have those five minutes. Is it are you good?
Yeah, I'm good. It is a visitor that's coming here and wants to
It's she's looking into having
Like a hundred teachers coming here to see the archive
Because we'll also try to get stuck with education. So we we get students
Of different ages, but mostly we like of course they have contact with people that are studying games
Game-making somehow like programming or art or something like that, but we get visitors like that
Okay, so I've gotten to hear from you that you have a lot of
Little bits here and there documentation you've you've moved around the entire collection just to make sure that
There's longevity here. So like yeah, it's not in collection order because if someone knew took your spot
If they would have no idea where things are so if you have things in like a sega room or something
Then you've you can someone else can take that on if that was needed to be done
Do you have a
Yeah, go ahead
No, I was in maybe it's it is your question that we have
Internal documentation so that we can see like how we thought and and so on so that we can
Keep track of it and so that the future
Knows how we've done and why we've done it and yeah, because that you totally mind-readered me
I was wondering if you had a collection development policy if that was a part of
We have different documents. We have
a more acquisitions like
Policy we have an archival more like what do we actually what are we and what are researching for
And all of these are kept as versions
So we update them at least once a year
We go through them and of course if we see during the year that we need to do changes
we do different versions and we keep them so
I
I like order
I'm like singing hearing all this that was I was gonna ask all of those things you just like
Up to once a year it keeps its own history. Oh, yes
Those are all the things that I'm trying to build for the vjf right now. It's just yeah
Oh, you have to update this you can't just let it sit
I will make that really easy for you
No, because it it's easier to go back and and to also say like
We can do this or we or we shouldn't do this just you know like what where boundaries are
But also like how do we work because that's I think that I as an archivist have had a really hard time
like when you
Are taking care of other like archives that other people have have like started and and on the
The cataloging work and then you don't know why they did it the way that they did it
And you really don't understand how to search and then it's very complicated
Especially if your organization's strategies change, which doesn't mean that like everything goes crazy
Just that if there's a if there's a pivot you can play along with it
Exactly. So for us, it's really important and also which made a data our
Engineer, he's really like he keeps track of it
Like what is new?
How do we use the different fields? We have documentation about all of those things that we
Because sometimes we have a lot of like gray sounds like is this our game bundle or this is a system bundle
How do we see it? What is a system?
So we have also like an
An internal
The source so to say so that we also know how we use the words because for me it's really important and that's something
I personally believe is very important for preservation work in the long run
to actually
Be able to say
When we say game we mean this thing when we say
When when when when we say what is a version we mean
These like these things because or else we will be speaking different languages
Yep, so that's that's like and when we say game title
Is it the game title on the box or is it the game title in game or is it like what people have called it?
Like how do we how do we differentiate between?
Different things there's games that have a European name that
Have a different worldwide name of thinking about like Fahrenheit versus indigo prophecy
Yeah, just things that have that
and the
No, I don't remember the name in English, but yeah, we have
So so and also when we have the games in japanese for example
And
The japanese name we have a name in romanji and then we also have the english version so that we can whoa
cool
Okay
That answered a whole bunch of my questions all at once
I've got a good idea on who you're kind of clients or users
Oh, um, the biggest thing that I don't have anything on right now that I think we can take five minutes for
Um
Is how do you develop projects?
So your big project is still
Keir rating and stewarding the whole collection
That is just ongoing a big behemoth the elephant getting eaten one bite at a time
Um, how do you develop other projects and for whom and how does that kind of work?
Is it just based on how you who's coming on in?
Yeah, what we see is needed and we have our internal like long-term plan like what we want to do internally
For the upkeep of the archive, but then we also of course when we get
some kind of question or some kind of inquiry that we
That we need to think about and we try to
also see like is this something we should do in another way or so on but our bigger projects are
the
Like the iterative work has been very big projects for us and also now
Looking forward like how do we consider things like where where do we begin which computers or consoles are at risk first
Uh, which materials for for example for me are problematic
Which plastics should I look like look forward to be able to do preservation work and see to it that is
That it is good long long term
Because something that we do that also many collectors would find hard but for us
Because we our aim is preserved through use is that we open everything up
We don't we ourselves do not need
Uh
We don't need a perfect 10 out of 10 version
I personally like what I what is called pre loved like the maps and the receipts and
Those kinds of things that make the games more alive and more human actually
and
So that's really important for us and also because
If you keep things in for example shrink wrap share shrink wraps
shrink wrap
uh
Is shrinking all the time. It doesn't like stop shrinking
Yeah, right?
So
So many examples here in the archive of things getting like bent
Even metal has been bent by shrink wrap by yeah
Oh my god, the world's a beautiful place
So so yeah, I actually had a but I didn't get it did it
in the comment field we made a video here in sweden with a
With a person like looking into collections of different kinds and I told him this
And he was like I have vinyl should I like what do I do and I was like I if you like play them
Yeah, but if you are only thinking about like keeping them as a
Monetary thing, of course you could keep them plastic, but they will destroy
Yeah, your your items and in all archives and museums everyone says remove
The plastic, but people were like no you don't need to and so but I'm like it's such a big conflict the games scene specifically
I would just like to show them like all of the research being done in plastic so that they can just like
If games were older you'd be able to just show them like hey, here's a lump of plastic that used to be normal shaved
exactly plus
And also with plastic and it can create like a microclimate and that's why it's very important in archives for air to always be
moving so that you
Have a good like give everything a very good
like way of preserving and so
Yeah, so so if this shrink wrap or some kind of plastic wrap is on a for example a game
The game can it can start happening things there and if they're for example different types of plastic if we have styrofoam
styrofoam can start reacting with other plastics and can start melting it or melting together so
for us
We want to be able to play the games. That's our thing. So to be able to play them
We also have to be able to take them out of of their books or yeah, whatever it is
So I've got time for one more question. Yeah, because you've been so it's a thorough with answering things
um
My last question. Oh my god
I would love to talk about all because you take metadata and you take notes down on all of the
The parts that are play parts. I I love play artifacts. That's a thing that's just so unresearched
Artifacts of the person actually playing the game. Anyway, um my main question the big thing
is
What what users what have users been most attracted to
That you have seen and is that data that you find useful to like take in in some way
To to share with embrace or to to work around
For us like to find out data. How does that build out?
Yeah, no for from for us when it comes
Because we have different kinds of people coming to our time. So we get so many different kinds of questions
so from from
From people studying games in any way like researching I find it
That it is a step we have to take soon like we don't really have
Game studies as game studies here at least we always study games from another perspective
so from a historical or from a more like
entertainment has been very very used here at least because that's a way that they can get into
studying
Studying actually our
Our games, but what we've also seen is
from more like the the film side like people studying films and also want to look at more at games that are more like
fmb games like
Looking at actors or or games that are somehow more like a movie somehow has movie elements
So that's how that would be easier to study
Yeah, and we've also had people and that's
That is getting more more just what you said like people studying more like
What's inside of a game mostly from a from a
standpoint of what came with the game because back in the day you got big manuals and you might have
Maps or whatever that came actively with the game
Because maybe the game didn't have the possibility to tell you all of the backstory or how you play for example
everything was
Outside of the game, but we also have info com for example. They made games back in the day
Their games are really really awesome because they always have a manual that is like
Not always, but in the bigger versions at least they have a manual
Which is always reflected upon what the game is so if it is a game that is like a mystery
It might look like someone's like notes or if it is a game that is like more
Based on a special town somehow it has like a guide to the town that looks like
Very thematic resources exactly, but also always what it's called at least what I know feel is so things that are physical
Based on the games. We have a for example the hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy game that they've made
There is for example a little plastic bag that says an intergalactic like
battle unit or something like that because that's part of the game even though you don't maybe use it in the game
But it's still something that you get on the outside and you get a pin which has done panic
You also get and I this I really like you get two pieces of paper
One where the council tells you that your house is gonna be destroyed
You get the deed from arse's deed. Yeah, awesome
But you also get the alien deed
For that earth is gonna be destroyed. So those things are so cool. So yeah, that's awesome
So people are studying them also
but when it comes to more people writing it's
Usually it's more console driven
Yeah
Research so you'll get to see what a hundred teachers
The coffee got forgiveness be interested in
Yeah, it's gonna be a very interesting
And
Yeah, and and and for schools. It's more to show them a bit more of gaming history
But research a bit more like people coming here for writing books and like it's been more
Either obvious because we've been for example in contact with
Stinkholt if you know them they make very awesome books
For a couple of their books. They've actually been here taking pictures from the items here in the archives
One of my classmates is doing a zelda thesaurus for a class project
And so I got to use the lost in cult version of the
Zlda book which is gorgeous
Yeah, they make they make awesome awesome things. So always something you can put on a shelf
Yeah, okay. Cool. Yeah, absolutely. So
Yeah, and and
At the moment we are still less than in a very early stage. So
We might think about how to cater and therefore like maybe do some things some new things into our
database if we need
Information and that we see that it's going to be something that is used for long long term
So yeah, amazing. Okay
uh
Oh, then oh I had I wanted to sneak one more question. I lost it. I lost it. It came up earlier
Uh, I'm trying to think if I can catch it real quick
Ah, I'm gonna let that one slip. That's okay. Oh shoot. I do remember what it was. Oh my gosh. It's so pressing
Um, you collect new games. Uh, I don't I can't think of anyone that you've talked about all this whole interview that uses new games as like a
point
um
But also
New games are not
physical anymore
We're that whole thing is like stopping entirely. And so I I don't know. What is how does that affect y'all with
Trying to collect and preserve all of gaming
Yeah, no, we we see the physical. So if it's really physical at the moment, it's within our boundaries, even if it is
Yeah, load only we still have an artifact
Yeah
game. So we still see that it is of use
Uh, but we're thinking of how how to handle it still
Uh, and yes, uh, physical release are
Are getting fewer and fewer at least in some of your budgets getting better because like if you're but if you have to
collect less physical games coming out now, does that mean you have more resources for
collecting older stuff?
Yeah, and we normally upkeep like we we rather have a collection that someone
has done and collected on
Already because we are we're so few here. We don't have all of the knowledge in the world
So if someone is an expert and really has collected and knows what exists on on a special platform
And then that's the type of collections we mainly aim to acquire
More complete and then it is most of the time like older than so we have maybe where maybe
Want two generations back, but we still get new things here donated to us
and
Lots of things that are actually more from in the release. We have
Super rare games. I think their their name is they yeah, they make like in the game
releases for the switch and I think the ps5 and school they actually donate
their games to us so that we get those because
Back in the day those are very pretty too. They are they are and back in the day maybe
It it was a lot easier to know
How many games were released to the Sega Mega Drive like you there are lists but
For the switch is going to be very hard like what do you count as a game or the small releases exactly?
So so therefore we we do that but we also acquire
A lot of like homebrew. We we've gotten into the archive too in different ways like
That's gonna be digital in some cases, right?
And now we get physical
Okay, it's all physical at least the ones that we get they have lots of games that aren't as you said
Digital especially for the Commodore, but there's still games released physical to
computers and to newer consoles and the older consoles so
All of that tells something about our history, but we still have a lot a lot a lot in front of us
Yeah, you have so much to do
Okay, so if i'm understanding the picture
This would not necessarily be a place like
If I had a nintendo we that had all of the we wear on it that wouldn't necessarily fit in the scope of
Embrace or games archive
Not necessarily we itself might but the that it has all of this digital content on it. That's not really
That's a great so
Because because we of course in our policies, we also have a caveat that we always have to think if it's a special item
We have to like discuss that might be special enough
Exactly for example, we have a
Virtuality 2000s. I think it's called it's it's an a VR machine from the
Early 2000s, I think
And that one is an arcade machine, but we still see it as a very important step in the VR
Like in VR history so we oh because it
Locks in there. Oh smart. Okay. We tried to amazing. Yeah
Thank you so much for ask answer just all of my weird wild questions
I love talking about the archive is one of my actual favorite things
So I can I could speak so much more into it so much more if you are in such a fascinating position
And I I just think that the the shape that it is coming together as as you're developing it
Is really making something beautiful and it's cool how it interacts with a bunch of if I had more time
I'd love to talk about like how does this work internationally with all of the other and how does it work with afcamp and all that stuff
But like we can talk about that any other time. Yeah, this this gives us a huge strong baseline of
how this work can happen inside of
the publishing space and inside of games history and preservation how those interact
Yeah, amazing. Cool because I'm actually also on the board of afcamp. I am yes. Yeah, yeah
um
And I got I wanted to talk about gog too because your relationship with gog is uh your you
Those are two completely different companies that happen to have the same mission statements
Uh, and so there's some incredible synergy right there
It is and we try to help them too. So we we we are here for yep, we're all here for everyone
Yeah, yeah, oh
Please take it easy if you want to take another meeting later on
We can of course take it and if you have some follow-up questions that you want to just write I can like
happily oh
Oh, well
Thank you so much. I'm gonna go graduate real quick. Okay. Is that okay? I'm just gonna graduate
Uh
Like all my brain is at right now after like I had so much focused on just working on this interview
And now it's like oh
I'm gonna go graduate. All right. Bye
Good luck with the gradation and hopefully that you're hoping that you get some good sleep now also
Yes, you as well
Uh as fun and amazing as your job is also, please get some rest skits of sleep. Take care of yourself
Tell people no
As I got to tell every library and tell people no just
It can extra no today. I love doing things so people like do you want to be on this part and i'm like, yeah
That's exactly the thing
It's okay. It's okay. You could be not yet. It could be it could be a soft
Really
Nice meeting you great meeting you as well
And let's keep in touch
Absolutely. Yes, uh, I'm gonna stop this record